Quotes extracted from Live Caption of Stage Channel Q & A
Some minor rearranged for clarity:

... my impressions of how all the visit of YouTubers went.
First of all it was a blast.
We have not restricted any of the YouTuber by any NDA.
The only ask was, come here; we'll show you VR1.
All the devices we show them are still manually assembled.
All the components are manually picked and manually inspected...
Even few days before they arrived, we have been doing some changes,
so we have been reassembling some of the headsets they were trying
because we wanted to for example improve the IPD adjustment slider...
... the housings of the lenses, some of those parts were 3D printed.
The precision and the tolerances when you 3D print something
are way off from the tolerances which will be coming out of the factory.
On Monday, I had the dry run of every headset we will be showing them.
When I test the headsets, I loved it; like yeah,
there's some slider problems where the IPD would not stay,
but because the sweet spot is very big, I didn't have a problem with that.
I didn't see any distortions.  There is some chromatic aberration,
but nothing to me was and still nothing is right now a deal breaker.
So I said, that is a green light for sure.

We told them like give us the feedback cause we have 3 months to go
until we start shipping the unit, so there's plenty of time,
we're still going through iterations.  It's all good;
give us feedback, we can change things if needed.
It felt at some point like an exercise of,
lets find all things which are wrong with the headset,
but because that's what kind of what they asked,
lets forget about all the good things.

re: Brad's distortion
pinned down to a physical inconsistency with the lens.
All the produced lenses from the factory are in limit of tolerance.
We are still modifying small surfaces of the mold to make the tolerances
even smaller, right to nail down to maximum precision.
We showed YouTubers the very expensive machine which is
still being calibrated to automatically watch for inconsistencies,
but it doesn't happen right now because the machine is still being calibrated.

These lenses which they've seen had no coating at all;
 no antiglare, no antiscratch.  It will improve every aspect of the image.
We don't think there is a mathematical mistake in the warping,
it's normal that warping changes until the release;  we are on
version, I don't know 7 and we will probably be on version 15, 12 or 14
upon release.  We're receiving the latest lenses,
and we're recalculating the warping to match that stuff.
So that's about the main complaint.  Once Brad's seen that thing,
he would be very hard to concentrate on anything else.
We listened and we wrote down everything like literature.

Regarding the strap, counterweight is needed.
The upper strap is a bit short.  When you have a bigger head,
 it's not possible to put the back part lower,
the weight is more on your nose.  We'll fix it; it's not a problem.

Tyriel noticed the same thing as Brad, and then he noticed later that
the world felt off scale;  that was new to everyone.  Things in the
distance like the floor was a little bit off scale expected.
One fix which we immediately changed, because Somnium VR1 will allow you
to change the physical rendered FoV of the headset.
Optics are capable of rendering up to 130 degrees horizontally
and vertically 106 degrees.  Depending on distance of your eyes
and other factors, what you can see will differ.
If your FoV is 120, it doesn't make sense to render 130,
because you don't see it.
It saves the power of your computer in terms of the performance,
but it also changes a bit the way image is done.  We tried to reapply
the warping for Tyriel;  if I remember correctly, it helped him a bit,
but he still felt it.
This will be 2 sliders, vertical and horizontal,
and I recommend everyone measuring their FoV many times.
Tyriel was saying that it's a bit front heavy, but not a horrible deal breaker.

The eye tracking system will calculated and tell you what is your proper IPD.

Chromatic aberration:  from what I remember they said, yeah I see it's there,
but they didn't take it as a critical issue.
If you go to Tyriel's thru the lens video in the menus of Steam,
and he went from VR1 to Quest 3, you can see how much chromatic aberration
on the Quest 3, but again, thru the lens videos also not doing justice.
It will improve a lot actually because of the warping profile,
and because of the coating it will improve even more.,
but more importantly, we are working on a hardware solution
which we cannot tell you what it is, but we're testing right now,
which will eliminate 98% of chromatic aberrations on the whole FoV.

We will put that as an optional add-on,
because we know that the current chromatic aberration situation is not critical.
It's good for me;  totally fine, but if someone wants like an ultimate CA killer,
those components will be added at the production line, hopefully.
We'll confirm that in the mid of January because we're waiting for some components.
That will be a world first actually if what we think our physical will work.
We'll just have it as an option, because even without that, it works perfectly fine.

How much CA killer cost?  I would say additional $200-300.
If you ask me, I would not go for it.
If you're in an action scene or simulator, I didn't see it.
CA killer is both hardware and software.

So by the way, I have to say also one thing:
while I respect every single YouTuber we have invited
(otherwise I would never invited them), I love their opinions,
I love their channels and I think they're very honest people.
Please know that is what I think.
It doesn't mean that I agree with everything they say.

Weeks before YouTubers, when VR Optician guy was visiting us
for some conversations about lenses, some prototypes and stuff,
because we're continuing to make progress with that, we gave him
previous prototypes of VR1 which had previous lenses and warping profile.
He took it on and said "damn, today you have made me even more excited about VR1."
He sad, "woah, you've got a customer."

Optical system is sealed, unlike some other headsets,
anywhere from the outer part of the lens until the screen.
When the headset is exiting the factory would do the same 60 megabit
check with automated system, logging everything,
so we can always go back and look at the headset parameters
and know that everything was perfect when leaving the system.

Optical stacks, not from the start of orders, but will be sold separately,
boards separately, cables separately.  If someone is feeling luck and
super, super professional, you might be able to do that,
but I would not guarantee that you will be able to use the headset afterwards.

One of the things which I like about our headset is there's no light leakage in it.
It hugs your face and it doesn't wobble.
That is absolutely important, that it doesn't wobble.
We are still experimenting with a face mask.  We are not going for the cheap
face mask material, and actually they did not complain about face masks at all.
What we want to improve is width of the face mask on the bottom side
to distribute weight better.  We just didn't have time to receive the final batch.

"100% you guys are queens of drama."

Somnium will not go to CES;  personal conflicts.
We can showcase some stuff to people later.

These are the things I'm proud of:
1) undistorted field of view 120+
2) vibrancy of display
3) sharpness and absence of screen door effect.

If you buy fully loaded VR1,
the only thing you will need to buy yourself are base stations and controllers.

We're using the same facility as Vrgineers,
but we are improving it quite dramatically for VR1
because volumes will be much higher with new machinery,
new testing machinery, new rooms, and it will be very upgraded,
if not like completely new line.

I said to every YouTuver this is not the headset for everyone.
It was never meant to be.
We can't even build a headset for everyone because the price.
This is the lowest possible price we can start selling it at.
We cannot subsidize it; we must cover out costs.
We will not get rich out of this headset.

It's consistent image on the whole FoV
It gets more blurry as you lose ppd, but it's not distorted.
Because we are partners with TryMyTech from Sebastion from MRTV,
I'm thinking to start TryMyTech experience in our office in Prague
and let several people per month just test the VR1,
maybe the end of January and then record their experience.

Semi-transparent version is in the works, maybe sometime end of January,
we will be receiving some experimental parts of the transparent edition.

By default, displays are color accurate.
You in software can crank up contrast.

3D models will be released and printable models optimized for Prusa.

For mixed reality, the masking of the cockpit we have seen,
we will be providing a software which will allow you to do the same
at home in a very quick and easy way, so you'll be able to put tomorrow
your space in blender or cat file.  You'll be able to upload that
and then the software wil mask exactly what they want to be masked.
So you will have a cockpit directly and will be the first consumer
headset which will allow you to do that with mixed reality.

The moment that you start ordering,
you'll be also able to go to VR Optician website to order lenses for VR1.

There are still questions up to which extent we will be able to open source
all things.  Our eye tracking is completely open source, all things.
Having an ability to access all the sensors and cameras, of course,
but if there were some parts here, some parts I'm not sure yet
we're discussing with.

We have our own OpenXR runtime.  Our eye tracking is fully working.
The algorithm will be improved, as always will be refined,
and even after release, it's completely open source;
it's in-house made, it works very well.

We had so much fun, I will ask (YouTubers) to come again, That's my evil plan.


There is no show stopper;
everything is fixable and everything is tweakable.
